---
layout: post
title: "I'm a git, you're a git, everyone's a git, git"
author: "Mike Levin"
categories: blog
slug: im-a-git-youre-a-git-everyones-a-git-git
permalink: /blog/im-a-git-youre-a-git-everyones-a-git-git/
---

This is one for the history books. I have taught my wife enough Linux to load
vim and enough vim to write Python.

But what about git? Hmmm. I used to think that one should take up Python first
through Jupyter Notebooks, then put off Linux, vim & git for as long as
necessary until the time is right. Then Microsoft fixed the WSL install on
Windows 11 to merely just be:

    wsl --install

Then I realized the age of easy-install Linux was upon us. It can be done under
a still-working version of Windows, so you have all your drivers, device
support, game compatibility and whatnot. There's no searching around, making
decisions, choosing Linux versions. About the only decision is whether you type
that command from a DOS Command window (COM) or a Windows Powershell. Either
will do the trick perfectly well. But after the command finishes, you'll have
Ubuntu 20.04 (as of the time of this writing) installed and running right in
the window you ran the command from.

So, things are different. It is no longer necessary to defer the Linux and vim
part of the experience. Quite the contrary, the vim part of the experience is
so very challenging, central and pivotal to making the transition to... what?
Another kind of human being in the same way engineers, musicians and athletes
are other kinds of human beings, that the sooner you begin this transformation,
the better. The only reason I deferred this transformation in the past is
because of how hard it was to get an everyday Linux system. Before Windows 11,
the wsl --install step still had a few show-stopping steps that followed,
namely turning on the hypervisor and doing a few reboots. It was too difficult
for the mainstream. It is not anymore.

vim is too difficult for the mainstream, you say? Yeah, Microsoft'll have you
believe that. They bought Github, built-in Linux and hired the creator of
Python. But what are they going to do about vim? Crush it with VSCode, of
course! You will use VSCode. You can depend on that. Microsoft needs you to
depend on that, for if you learn vim, you will have a viable path to
platform-independence, and that can not be allowed.

So get your ass to vim! Do it now! Run, Forrest, run! Use vim and don't ever
look back!

Once you're on vim through WSL, you're already on Linux. Use vim to make a
file:

    vim hello.py

From inside the file, learn enough vim to write and save:

    print("Hello World!")

The keystrokes by the way are:

    i
    print("Hello World!")
    [Esc]
    :wq
    [Enter]

Okay, now from the command-line that you've returned to, type:

    python hello.py

Hit Enter, of course. It shouldn't need to be said, but after venturing into
vim for maybe the first time, I guess it does have to be said. A lot of assumed
keystrokes in everyday instructions have to become considerably more precise
when discussing vim.

And you'll see the output of your Hello World program. Okay, so now you know
Linux, Python and vim.

But what about git?

Honestly, git's the hardest of my recommended set of tools now. Sure, Linux,
Python and vim have so very, very, very, very, very much more to explore and
learn. But look, you can be functional with all three in just a single sitting.

    wsl --install
    echo "print('Hello World!') > hello.py
    python hello.py
    vimtutor

Okay, so now you know Linux, Python and vim. The rest is details.

But there's nothing like this for git. git eludes. git is still mysterious.

git builds upon assumed Linux knowledge that one might not have.

git requires initialization.

git requires initiation.

Put off git until the time is right.

Nervousness, tap, tap, tap... all that code not backed up. No undo. No ability
to flow it onto other computers. A laptop crash would be devastating... tap,
tap, tap... still, no git?

But when will the time be right?

What's that Nat? You want to web-publish like I do?

Well, I guess the time has come the Walrus said to speak of that great and
awesome git's other main contribution to the free and open source world. This
massive git of git's first and largest contribution of course being Linux
itself. Linus Torvalds wrote git. Linux named it after himself.

This is appropriate given Linus' awesome creativity inventing the product from
scratch, as Ken Thompson, the creator of Unix, will tell you about Linus and
Linux and Bitkeeper's creator Larry McVoy will tell you about git. I am quite
sure Larry called Linux a git before Linus named git git.

At least Linus knows himself well. However, this wants me want to bang my:

    git reset --hard HEAD^^^^^^^^

But I get ahead of myself. Let's keep the geek jokes to a minimum. They only
infuriate those sincerely trying to learn.

Nat asks to web publish like me. Okay, so it's time to teach her...

Github Pages!!!

Okay, take a deep breath. You thought Linux, Python and vim were challenging.
Okay, let's just start with Github Pages. Why? Because:

- It lets you publish markdown as web pages (no HTML-knowledge necessary)
- Creating a markdown is quick and easy in vim.
- It forces us to learn enough git to make a local "repository"
- It forces us to get that repository up on Github
- Then your website is just a few Github / Settings away.

Okay, assume being in a Linux terminal but with little Linux experience, either
on operation or terminology. It can all be rather intimidating and
overwhelming, so break it down Barney-style.

- First is explaining what a git "repository: is.
- Next is explaining what the git program itself is.
- Then we have to explain what using a command-line program in a terminal is.

Okay, here we go:

- git is a command-line program (probably already on your machine)
- We have to check if it actually is on your machine.
  - It usually is on recent versions of Linux (which you are on)
- To check if we have git:
  - Open a Terminal, which is also known as:
    - A shell
    - The command-line interface
    - CLI
  - As an aside, the Window versions which are similar but not Linux, are:
    - COM (the command window)
    - Powershell
  - None of this will work from the Windows versions
  - You can tell the difference between them based on their prompt
    - Both COM and Powershell use the greater-than ">" as their prompt
    - Linux uses the dollar-sign "$" as its prompt

Aside from very few special cases, I am never talking about COM or Powershell.
These have very little use except to install Windows software. We used COM to
install Linux with the wsl --install command. That's the last we should ever
have to use COM or Powershell as far as I'm concerned.

But we now have the Linux command-line. The preferred way to get to the Linux
command-line (a.k.a. Terminal, Shell or CLI) is through the new Windows
Terminal program, available through the Microsoft Store.

I am about to show you how to use the git program from the Linux command-line.

So we have a Linux command-line open and ready to use. We have it by running
Microsoft Terminal. Our default is set to Ubuntu 20.04. If it's not, change the
default to Ubuntu 20.04. That way whenever we want a Linux terminal, we open
Microsoft Terminal and it's instantly there.

Go to your Linux command-line.

The next step is to show you how to read the git --help without needing to
scroll-up. We have turned off the ability to scroll-up in a Linux command-line
so that vim doesn't get messed up with the scroll-wheel. This is a good thing
and we should keep it that way.

To show git help, we type:

    git --help | less

Now we are displaying the output of git --help, but we are "piping" it through
the program called "less".

The above command should be read as: show git's help, but pipe its output to
the program called less.

Piping is sending the output of one program into the input of another program.
This allows us to read all the help easily, even if it's taller than the
screen.

What would normally "scroll past" us and be lost off the top of the screen is
now all sent into a program that lets you navigate the text with the same keys
vim uses, including the q key to get exit the "less" program.

Okay, a word about how git "fits into" the overall picture.

The tools I use are really just 4 (plus Jupyter), so 5, really. But Jupyter is
for learning. The first 4 I expect I'll be using till the day I die.

- Linux
- Python
- vim
- git

git is important because your files must be:

- In more than one place
- Optionally very, very secret. To your satisfaction... enough for a journal.
  Why?
  - Because Microsoft bought Github
  - Github is the most popular place for git repos
  - Microsoft has their reputation and stock value on the line
  - A leak of private info that is their fault will be on the front page of the
    newspapers the next day and make their stock value plummet, lose customers,
    lose faith, and begin an inevitable downfall of the company.
  - Microsoft will not intentionally let private repos leak.
  - Much more than a person's private journal is at stake. Proprietary code
    worth millions or billions is kept this way, too.
  - It is easier these days for your local machine to be hacked than for
    Microsoft to screw up with this.

What is a git repo, or "repository"?

It is a folder (a.k.a. directory). Those words are interchangeable.

The Linux command to make a folder (a.k.a. directory) is mkdir

When you run mkdir, it makes the directory in the location where you are in the
command-line.

So you want to look at where you are to make sure it's where you want the
folder to be made, and you can do that with:

    pwd

pwd means path of working directory.

The first step is to find out where the Operating System compels you to be.
It's always easy to start there.

From that location, I create a github

- After starting up your computer, it is a "blank slate". Nothing is running.
- When you run a Terminal (a.k.a. command-line, shell or CLI), you are "home"
- When you run pwd, you will see that home is /home/ubuntu/
  - This is where the (Linux) OS "compels" you to be... home.
  - It is from here, you mkdir... but with good nicknames.
  - The most important nickname in my mind is github.

So open a terminal and type:

    mkdir github

This is already done.

Now we can:

    cd github

To make ourselves "inside" the github folder.

- From inside the github folder, we can make new directories.
- The names are important because those are about to be "repos".
- Repos start out as ONLY git repos on your own (local) computer.
- Even when it's on Github, it can STILL be kept private.
  - Github lets you keep a few private repos
  - But you cannot share other people into them
  - This happens to be perfect for our purposes

So we cd into github

Then we mkdir on a name that will soon be a private repo. No one but you will
see it.

    mkdir publishme
    cd publishme
    git init
    ls
    ls -a

You can see that there is a "hidden" .git folder made as a result of git init.

    vim index.md

This is the preferred file-name for a homepage under the Github Pages
publishing system. Write some markdown.

    git status
    git add index.md

 This is now a git repo on your local computer. In the next step, we:

 - Go to github.com
 - We select the + in the upper-right and select "New repository"
 - We IMMEDIATELY switch it to private
 - We put our cursor in the Repository name box and type the exact same name as
   the folder we're working from on our local computer.
 - We scroll down and we hit "Create repository"

We go back to the command-line and type:

    git commit -am "My first commit"
    git config --global user.email "youremail@somewhere.com"
    git config --global user.name "Your Name"
    git branch -M main

We're almost there.

    git branch -M main
    git remote add origin git@github.com:miklevin/publishme.git
    git push -u origin main

This last step is going to require the username and password.

